BOOK IX. ii.-iii

reasonable one; however, Ι almost wish you would
not accept it. For to reject a friend’s excuses for
writing brielly, be they ever so just, bespeaks the
warmestaffection. Farewell.

Ill

To Prunrwus

anurwo differ in their notions of supreme ’

happiness; but in my opinion it consists in the fore-
taste of an honest and abiding fame, the assurance of
being admired by posterity, the realiaation, while yet
living, of future glory.⁶ 1 confessis 1 had not the
reward of an immortal reputation in view, Ι should

choose to live in the lap οΙ Leisure‚ as people say. ·

There seem to be but two points worthy our atten-
tion; either the endless duration of fame, or the
short extent of life. Those who are governed by the
former consideration, rnust pursue it with the full
exertion οΙ the most laborious efforts; while such as
are influenced by the latter should quietly resign
themselves to repose, nor wear out a short life in
perishable pursuits: as some, we may observe, do, and
then sink at last into sels-contempt, in the midst of
a wretched and fruitless course of false industry.
These are my daily reflections‚ which Ι communicate
to you, in order to renounce them if you do not join
with me in the same sentiments: as undoubtedly
you will, who are lor ever meditating some glorious
and immortal enterprise. Farewell.

181

 

