BOOK X. cxv-cxvi

CXV

Tamari ro Pnnvv

You might very reasonably, my dear Pliny, be
doubtful what decision to give to the inquiry of the
Censors3 whether they might elect into the senate
citizens of other cities though of the same province?
The authority of law on one side, and long custom
prevailing against it on the other, might well throw
you into a state of suspense. The proper mean to
observe in this case, will be, to make no change in
what is past, but to suffer those senators who are
already elected, though contrary to law, to keep
their scats, to whatever city they may belong; in all
future elections, however, to pursue the directions
of the Pompeian law: for to extend its influence
backwardS‚ must necessarily introduce great con-
fusion.

CXVI

To rua Eurunon Tuasarv

Iris customary here upon any person's taking the
manly robefl solemnizing his marriage, entering upon
the office of a magistrate, or dedicating any public
work, to invite the whole senate, together with a
considerable part of the commonalty, and distribute
to each of the company one or two denarii. Ι beg
you would inform me, whether you think proper this
ceremony should be observed, and if so, within what
limits. For myself, though I arn of opinion that

α i. 9, note.

425

 

Α

