BOOK Χ. xlviii-xlix

XLVIII

Taarau ro Pnrur

Tun memorial of the Apameans which you
annexed to your letter has saved me the necessIty

of considering the reasons they allege, why the
former Proconsuls forbore to in'spect their accounts3
since they do not refuse to permit your examination.
Their integrity deserves to bc rewarded3 and they
must be assured for the present that you are to make
your inquiry at my personaI wish, and with a full
reserve to their privileges

. XLIX

To ‘run Eusenos Tuasau

Tun Nicomediam, Sir, before my arrival, had
begun to buiId a new Forum contiguous to their Ἰ
former, iu a corner of thch stands an ancient temple
dedicated to the Great Morhera This fabric must
either be rebuilt οι· removed; aud for this reason
chiefly, because it stands on a much lower level than
the losty building now being ereeted. Upon inquiry
whether this temple had been dedicated under
charter,⁶ Ι was informed that their manner of
dedication differs from ours. You will be pleased
therefore, Sir, to consider whether a temple which
has no charter of dedication, may be removed, con-
sistently with the claims of religion3 for if there is
no objection from that quarter, there is none on the

side of inconvenience.

22 339

 

