BOOK, ΙΧ. xxvi

ancestors ereeted those courts of judicature, that
men of his character should be propagaled there 3 ''—
And afterwards: “lf he deals in, and retails, and
peddles wickedness.'’-Andathousand other passages
which Ι might cite to the same purpose: not to
mention those expressions which Aeschines says are
not words, but wonders.

You will tell me l have lighted on an adverse
instance, since Demosthenes is condemned by Aes-
chines for running into these figurative expressions.
But observe, Ι intreat you, how far superior the
former orator is to his criticizer, and superior,
too, in virtue of these very passages: for in otherS,
the strength of his genius discovers itself ι in those
above quoted, the sublimity of it shines out. But
does Aeschines himself avoid what he reproves in
Demosthenes? “The orator,” says he, “Athenians,
and the law, ought ιο specle the same language 3 but
when the voice of the law declares one thing, and
that of the orator another.'’»-And in another place:
“ he afterwards manifestly discovered the design he
had, of concealing his fraud under cover of the
decree, having expressly declared therein, that the
embassadors sent ιο the Oretae gave the five talents,
not to you, but ιο Callias. And that you may be
convinced what Ι say is the truth (aster having
stripped the decree of its pomp, its golleyS, and
braggadocio) read the clause itself.” And in another
part: “Suffer him not to break οουεν and wonder out
of the limits of the question:’' a metaphor he is '
so fond of, that he repeats it again: “But sitting
firm and lying in ambush in the assembly drivc him
into the merits of the question, and observe well
how he doubles.'' ls his style more reserved and

²39

 

