BOOK X. lxv-lxvi

Vespasian to the Lacedaemonians, and another from
Titus to the same, with one likewise from him to the
Achaeans Also a letter from Domitian to the
Proconsuls Avidius Nigrinus and Armenius Brocchus
and another to the Lacedaemonians: but l have not
transmitted them to you, as well because they were
ill-copied (and some of them, too, of doubtful
authority) as because l imagine the true copies are
preserved in your Record Οθῑοε.α

LXVI

Taurarv uo Pnnvv

Tua question concerning free-born persons who
have been exposed as infants and reared in slavery
by those who took them up, hasbeen frequently
discussed; but l do not find in the arehives of the
Princes my predecessors, any general regulation upon
this head, extending to all the provinces. There
are, indeed, letters of Domitian to Avidius Nigrinus
and Armenius BrocchuS, which perhaps ought to be
observed ; but Bithynia is not comprehended :in the
provinces therein mentioned. Ι am of opinion
therefore, that those who desire emancipation upon
this ground should not be debarred from publiely
asserting their l'reedom, nor be obliged to purchase
it by repaying the costos their maintenance.

³ “Under the empire, the aeonia. .. wera the official
bureaux where the public arohives were kept.'' (Hardy.)

36

 

