BOOK VIII. ix.-x

in fine, that indolent but agreeable situation of doing

nothing, and being nothing: so entirely has the .

pressure of business on my friends' account put a
stop alike to my going into the country and my
studying. For no studies areos consequence enough
to supersede that duty of friendship which they

chemsellyes teach us most religiously to observe.
arewe .

X

To F Annuus, His Wrrn's Guuwornrnun

Youn concern to hear of your grand-daughters
miscarriage will be proportionate, I know, to your
earnest desire that we should make you a great-
grandfather. The inexperience of her youth ren-
dered her ignorant that she was breeding: so that
she not only omitted the proper precautionS, but

r managed herself in a way extremely unsuitable to a

l person In her condItion. But she has received a
severe Iesson, paying for her mistake by the utmost
hazard of her life. Su, though you cannot but
feel itan affliction to be bereaved at youradvanced
age of the immediate prospect of posterity; yet it

l deserves your gratitude to the Gods, that while
denying you great-grandchildren for the present,
they preserved the life of· your grand-daughter, as
desIgnIng yet to bestow them; a blessing we may
expect with more certainty, as she has given this
proof, though an unhappy one indeed, of her being
capable of bearing children.

Iam offering you the reflections in which I seek
exhortation‚ counsel, and strengthening for myself.
You cannot more ardently wIsh to have great-

119

 

