’ BOOK X. xli

XLI

To rus Euesaon Tnsssn

Wnnu l reflect upon your exalted station, and the
greatness of your mind, it seems most fitting to
point out to you some works worthy alike of your
immortality and your farne, and no less useful than
magnificent. Bordering upon the territories oi the
city oi Nicomedia is a most extensive lake3 over
which marbles, produce, timber and commodities are
easily and cheaply transported to the high roaid3 but
from thence, are eonveyed in carriages to the
sea-side, at great charge and labour. Accordingly,
they desire to connect this lake with the sea. To
carry out this work will require, 'tis true, many
hands3 but these again cannot be scarce, for the
country, and particularly the city, is exceedingly
populous; and one may assuredly hope that every-
body will readily engage in a work which will be of
universal benefit.

lt only remains then to send hither, if you shall
think proper, a surveyor oran architect, in order to
examine whether the lake lies above the level of
the sea3 the mechanics oi this province being of
lllltsslllss {ltfizihltlizll illiti, l
large canal, which was cut by one of the kings of
this country3 but as it is left unfinished, it is
uncertain whether it was for the purpose of draining
the adjacent lands, or of connecting the lake and
the river. Itis equally doubtful, too, whether the
death of the king, or the despair of being able to ·

³31

 

