BOOK X. reu-xcvi

ceeded the number which Ι assured that illustrious
order Ι would be contented with. 1 have yielded,
however, to your. request; and have directed an
article to be inserted in my register, that Ι have
conferred upon Tranquillus on my usual *conditions
the privilege which the law grants to those who have
three children. ’

XCVI ‘
To rus Eurnnon Tnmnw

lm is a rule, Sir, which Ι inviolably observe, to
refer myself to you in all my doubts3 for who is
more capable of guiding my uncertainty or informing
my ignorance? Having never been present at any
trials of the Christiana, Ι am unacquainted with the
method and limits tobe observed either in examining
or punishing thern. Whether any difference is to be
made on account of age, orno distinction allowed
between the youngest and the adult; whether
repentance admits to a pardon, or if a man has been
once a Christian it avails him nothing to recant3
whether the mere profession of Christianity, albeit
without crimea, or only the crimes associated there-
with are punishable-in all these points Iarn greatly
doubtfuhss

ln the meanwhile, the method Ι have observed
towards those who have been denounced to me as
Christians is this : Ι interrogated them whether they
were Christians; if they confessed it I repeated the
question twice again, adding the threat of capital
punishment; if they still persevered‚ Ι ordered them
to be executed. For whatever the nature of their
creed might be, l could at least feel no doubt that

401
voc. 11. n o

 

